hello tom here from t awarness going to
be a little bit different video from the
usual videos that i make but it's going
to basically teach you how to make a
simple game and then later on I'm going
to basically teach you how to make more
complex more complicated games ok so the
first thing you want to do is go on yoyo
games com the link will be in the
description and then you want to click
game maker 8.1 standard out now just
click that then cook game make a light
which will say free and then click the
free button here and it will start
downloading when that's downloaded you
want to click on it and run it and agree
to the terms make us some shortcuts if
you want I already have a game maker but
i'm just going to install it again
anyway so and then you want to I'm tick
start game maker because this way I can
teach you how to start gaming it every
time so if you have windows 7 you can
just type in game maker and it will come
up or you can if you don't have windows
seven or vista just click all programs
and find game maker a and then click on
game maker 80 k so when you got gaming
open it should look something like this
now the first thing that you want to do
is draw the things that are going to be
in your game so i'm just going to draw a
wall so what you want to do is you see
all these folders either everything
that's going to be in your game right
here so sprite which is basically the
pictures of the game you want to right
click and then could correct spray on
the sprite folder you can rename this
where it said name i'm just going to
name this ward i'm going to click Edit
sprite and then you will get this box up
now this is a bit complicated but when
you're used to it it will it won't look
that complicated so just click create
new sprite here this little page button
make it as big as you want I suggest
that you buy 32 for a ward and then just
basically draw a war
I'm just going to draw really really
quick one here but it will give you the
idea okay so when you've drawn your war
or whatever you were drawing just click
the tick tick again and click OK okay so
now we've got great another sprite which
is going to be the person that you're
going to control so I'm just going to
name this person and draw the person and
I'm going to make a person kind of a
circle shape like that
tick tick again and then okay so once
you've got that you got the images so
now you want a background so the
background isn't just plain and boring
so click create a background now you can
overload a picture for a background or
you can edit the background entirely up
to you but for this tutorial purpose i'm
just going to load a background where it
quick i'm just going to call this back
around click load background and just
find one and then just select the
background so i'm just going to select
this wood one here which is 96 x 96
pixels then what you want to do is
create a an object now to create an
object you can either click on this blue
circle up here same with creating a
sprite if you want to create an image
you can just click up here for great
sprite and the background click up here
for greater background or you can just
right-click the folders and then click
correct background okay so we're going
to create an object so right click
create object now this is going to be
the wall so where it says sprite is
there's no sprite at the moment but you
want to click on this drop-down box and
then click the wall make sure it's a
solid and then you can just leave that
how it is that will do for now okay
great another object now you want to
call this person and you want to fight
to be the person and then you want to
click add event keyboard left and then
add a vent keyboard right add event
keyboard up an advent keyboard down now
these these are going to be basically
when you press left you're going to go
left when you press up you're going to
go up when you press right you're going
to go right and when you press down
you're going down so let's start with
the left now you should see all these
actions on the right side basically
where it says jump you want the first
one which looks like an X and in an
arrow pointing to another X so just drag
that in to the actions
then you will see this box come up so
this is left and left is on the x so you
want minus 4 for X make sure that's
relative and you can copy and paste this
and up is minus 4 for y make sure that's
relative right is 4 for X make sure
that's relative and down isn't 4 for y
so make sure that is relative now the
higher number see I've had four and
everyone but the high number so say six
it will go faster the lower number go
slow pretty basic okay so now you want
to create a collision so when it hits
the wall it won't move slow cook other
then collision and then cut the wall and
then click this jump to position again
the X with an arrow pointing to another
X and click OK and just leave the owl is
make sure its relative again then click
OK now you've got to create your room
which is basically the level so you can
either click up here in click great room
or you can right-click the room folder
then click great room now you may notice
that let's go up grid on it you can
remove this grid just by clicking this
sort of British button up here and you
can make the grid bigger by typing in
how much you want here so like so too
and like to like that and for that to
make the room bigger you can go into
settings and just change the width from
the height but i'll let you forget that
all out for yourself so we need the
background and the background what you
basically want to do is just click the
backgrounds don't worry about everything
else just click this drop-down menu and
then click the background you chose so
mine is wood so it looks pretty sweet
then go on to objects make sure it's on
your wall you can do that just by
clicking on this image here and click
wall hold shift and then just click all
the way down it should like make one
ever
everyone can you'll see what i mean when
you go on to this and do it yourself
you'll see what i mean i'm just going to
add some random walls here so you know
that the collision works and then add
your person somewhere random then click
the tick then click this green arrow
which will run your game and you can
test it and then you can just basically
move around and when you hit the walls
person stops moving and when you use
arrow as a person moves so a pretty
simple tutorial but we'll go on to more
complex stuff later on this was just to
show you how to start off from game
maker and I might make some more
tutorials just them show me what game
you made on game maker with this
tutorial in the video response and i'll
i'll show you how good you did in the
comments so yeah thank you for watching
this and goodbye
you